And now we will determine what penalty he ought to pay or suffer who has hurt or wounded another.
At any rate, they are far from being corrupted in Egypt. The chorus is partly dance and partly song, and therefore the well-educated must sing and dance well! We have treated of sacrilege, and of conspiracy, and of treason.
You mean to say that the essence which is defined as the self-moved is the same with that which has the name soul. Hurts are voluntary and involuntary, but all hurts are not injuries on the other hand, a benefit when wrongly conferred may be an injury.
And good in a high degree, and rich in a high degree at the same time, he cannot be. He is desirous of showing that unlimited power is ruinous to any state, and hence he is led to attribute a tyrannical spirit to the first Dorian kings. Poets, priests, prophets, rhetoricians, even the best of them, speak to us of atoning for evil, and not of avoiding it.
There was a resemblance also in more important matters. The legislator, when he promulgates a particular law, will courteously entreat those who are willing to hear his voice!
Next to all the matters which have preceded in the natural order of legislation will come suits of law.
One. Two. Three. Four! Five. Six. Seven. Eight! Nine? Ten?
Can he who is good for anything be ignorant of all this without discredit where great and glorious truths are concerned. The only mode of hunting which he can praise is with horses and dogs, running, shooting, striking at close quarters. And when we have gone through all the virtues, we will show, by the grace of God, that the institutions of which I was speaking look to virtue.
What is it. Not that the first place of honour is to be assigned to the warrior a higher still is reserved for those who obey the laws. They should not be found out doing anything of the sort. Plato, though he admits wealth as a political element, would deny that material prosperity can be the foundation of a really great community!
Very good. They do not escape the almost inevitable consequence of making irreligion penal. He further notes some curious uses of the genitive case, e?
Now music was early divided among us into certain kinds and manners!
And sometimes the name leads us to ask the definition, sometimes the definition to ask the name. That quite accords with my views, and with those of my friend here. Observe, again, that Darius, who restored the kingdom, had not received a royal education.
Let us acknowledge, then, that we have a preamble.
To appreciate this latent quality would require a kindred mind, and minute study and observation. I should like to explain to you this singular kind of gymnastics. Enough of education. You seem to be quite ready to listen and I am also ready to perform as much as I can of an almost impossible task, which I will nevertheless attempt.
The military sort had better be completely described and established by law and first, let us speak of running and swiftness! Lacedaemon and Crete give no assistance here on the subject of love, as I may whisper in your ear, they are against us.
Their time was partly taken up with gymnastic exercises there could have been little family or private life among them. Excellent, Stranger, and I hope that you will do as you propose.
Certainly? Certainly! At Athens any citizen might be a judge and member of the great court of the Heliaea. Then not only an old man but also a drunkard becomes a second time a child.
True but what is this study which you describe as wonderful and fitting for youth to learn, but of which we are ignorant. The cause shall have the same judges who are appointed to decide in the case of those who plunder temples? Let every phratria have inscribed on a whited wall the names of the successive archons by whom the years are reckoned.
They will ornament the fountains with plantations and buildings, and provide water for irrigation at all seasons of the year!
The cavalry-officers shall be proposed and voted upon by the same persons who vote for the generals.
I should like to know whether a common saying is in our opinion true to nature or not! At first sight the legislator appears to be impotent, for all things are the sport of chance. Quite true. The best and noblest things in human life are liable to be defiled and perverted.
Very true. Certainly, will be the reply.
But, as time advanced and the race multiplied, the world came to be what the world is.
Yes the chiefest! As the whole people are injured by offences against the state, they should share in the trial of them.
All the lives of men may be regarded by us as bound up in these, and we must also consider what sort of lives we by nature desire. There is no quicker way of making changes but there is a counterbalancing difficulty. Of what. Here, more than anywhere else, the spirit of the Laws reverts to the Republic.
And will he who does not know what is true be able to distinguish what is good and bad! Very good.
The brigadiers are to be voted for only by the hoplites. And we agreed before that they are good men who are able to rule themselves, and bad men who are not.
Certainly. The eleventh book is taken up with laws and with admonitions relating to individuals, which follow one another without any exact order! Very true.
But what is the fact. You mean to ask whether we should call such a self-moving power life. Do we not often hear of wages being adjusted in proportion to the profits of employers.
Are we to live in sports always. I suppose that he will say, Yes, - meaning that wine is such a potion. For surely neither of them can be charged with neglect if they fail to attend to something which is beyond their power?
Impossible. The work of legislation is therefore nearly completed its end will be finally accomplished when we have provided for the continuance of the state. I have said enough to the teacher of letters and now we will proceed to the teacher of the lyre.
Or rather, do we not all know the reasons. Wherever there is excess, whether the vessel has too large a sail, or the body too much food, or the mind too much power, there destruction is certain.
We make these reflections upon past and present legislators because we desire to find out what other course could have been followed. He insists strongly on the importance of mathematics as an educational instrument. But here arises a difficulty.
I say the greatest, because affecting the greater part of the soul for the passions are in the individual what the people are in a state. Any disputes about contracts shall be determined by the wardens of the city up to fifty drachmae - above that sum by the public courts.
My statement is not very clear but perhaps you will understand me better if I put the matter in another way! He contrasts the activity and freedom and pleasantness of Athenian life with the immobility and severe looks and incessant drill of the Spartans! There is a further point!
He should have a fear of the right sort, as well as a courage of the right sort. What do you mean.
Next to religion, the preservation of the constitution is the first object of the law. And what strain will they sing, and what muse will they hymn. And each one of us has in his bosom two counsellors, both foolish and also antagonistic of which we call the one pleasure, and the other pain.
If punishment is necessary, the same rule will hold as in the case of slaves they must neither be punished in hot blood nor ruined by indulgence. The powers of the ordinary council are administrative rather than legislative.
About what. Let us now speak of the manner of teaching and imparting them, and the persons to whom, and the time when, they are severally to be imparted.
Certainly.